New: Configuring Additional Lint Targets with `.eslintrc` (#20)
eslint/rfcs: designs/2019-additional-lint-targets/README.md

## Motivation

People have to use the `--ext` option or glob patterns to check wanted files even if they use plugins which support additional file types.

```yml
plugins:
  - markdown
  - html
  - "@typescript-eslint"
  - react
  - vue
```

```bash
# ESLint checks only `*.js`.
eslint src docs

# Needs `--ext` option
eslint src docs --ext .js,.md,.html,.ts,.jsx,.tsx,.vue
```

However, using plugins which support additional file types is the intention that wants to check those files. The requirement of redundant CLI options is not reasonable.

Per "[Related Discussions](#related-discussions)" section, this is very regularly requested; I want to configure additional target files with `.eslintrc`.

## Detailed Design

This proposal enhances `overrides` property of the config file.

- If a config file in a directory has `overrides` property, ESLint checks the files which are matched by any of override entries (i.e., `files`/`excludedFiles` criteria) additionally in the directory.
    - If any of `files` value of an override entry ended with `*`, this enhancement doesn't use the entry in order to avoid checking too many kinds of files.

> - This enhancement affects only the case where a directory path is provided on the CLI. If people provide glob patterns on the CLI, ESLint behaves the same as currently.

Reviewer: Just to clarify, does this mean that this feature won't work if someone has an npm script like `eslint **/*.ts` with the following configuration?

```json
{
  "overrides": [
    {
      "files": ["*.ts"],
      "parser": "@typescript-eslint/parser"
    }
  ]
}
```

Reviewer 2: In this case, ESLint will use the `@typescript-eslint/parser` package as the parser.

Author: Yes. If globs were used on CLI, ESLint works as same as currently. The target files are the files that the globs matched regardless of `overrides` settings.

On the other hand, if a directory path was used on CLI, ESLint will use `overrides[].files` instead of `--ext` option to search target files in the directory.

Reviewer: I wonder if it will be confusing to the end user if running `eslint "lib/**/*"` and `eslint lib` produce different results by being run on different files.

Author: The current ESLint does different already.

- `eslint "lib/**/*"` checks all kinds of files in `lib`.
- `eslint lib` checks `*.js` files in `lib`.

Reviewer: Doesn’t running`eslint "lib/**/*"` require the `ext` CLI option to actually check other file extensions though?

Maybe I’m misunderstanding something, but with this new feature, it seems to me like the above two examples could (and I think should) effectively be the same thing (when this new feature is being used in a config).

Author: ESLint doesn't use `--ext` option at all if globs ware given on CLI. ESLint checks all files the globs matched.

Reviewer: Ah, that’s what I was missing. Thank you for explaining!

- Start Date: 2019-05-12

> - RFC PR:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- RFC PR: https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/20
```

## Motivation

People have to use the `--ext` option or glob patterns to check wanted files even if they use plugins which support additional file types.

```yml
plugins:
  - markdown
  - html
  - "@typescript-eslint"
  - react
  - vue
```

```bash
# ESLint checks only `*.js`.
eslint src docs

# Needs `--ext` option
eslint src docs --ext .js,.md,.html,.ts,.jsx,.tsx,.vue
```

However, using plugins which support additional file types is the intention that wants to check those files. The requirement of redundant CLI options is not reasonable.

Per "[Related Discussions](#related-discussions)" section, this is very regularly requested; I want to configure additional target files with `.eslintrc`.

## Detailed Design

This proposal enhances `overrides` property of the config file.

- If a config file in a directory has `overrides` property, ESLint checks the files which are matched by any of override entries (i.e., `files`/`excludedFiles` criteria) additionally in the directory.

>     - If any of `files` value of a override entry ended with `*`, ESLint ignores the override entry to avoid checking all files.

Reviewer 3: What happens if someone does this?

```yml
overrides:
  files: ['*.js*'] # lint .js and .jsx
```

Following this proposal, it seems like this would not lint `jsx` files, but it seems like it might be desirable to lint `jsx` files in this case.

Maybe we could only take the override entry into account if the `file` value imposes some "restriction" on the file extension, but I'm not sure of the best way to detect that.

Author: It doesn't add `*.js*` files as the lint target automatically.

Dots can appear in the basename of filenames. For example, `webpack.config.js`. So I think that we should ignore that case of `['*.js*']` to avoid unintentional side effects. People can modify the glob to `["*.js", "*.jsx"]` easily.

>     - If any of `files` value of a override entry ended with `*`, ESLint ignores the override entry to avoid checking all files.

Reviewer 3: > ESLint ignores the override entry

Would ESLint entirely ignore the override entry, or would it just not take the entry into account for enumerating files? It seems like it could be confusing to entirely ignore the entry. (If we consider the entry invalid, it would probably be better to throw an error.)

Author: It just not take the entry into account for enumerating files.

>     - This enhancement affects only the directory path. If people gave glob patterns, ESLint behaves the same as currently.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - This enhancement affects only the case where a directory path is provided on the CLI. If people provide glob patterns on the CLI, ESLint behaves the same as currently.
```

I was a bit confused when reading this because I thought it meant glob patterns in `overrides`, not glob patterns on the CLI.

    - The ignoring configuration (`.eslintignore`) is prior to this enhancement. If `.eslintignore` contains the additional target files, ESLint just ignores those as same as currently.

> The `overrides` property means that people intend to check those files. So this behavior is intuitive.

Reviewer 3: What happens if I use `--ext=.js,.jsx` and I also have a `files` section for `.html`? Would they all be combined (so `.js`, `.jsx`, and `.html` files would be linted)? Or would `ext` take precedence (so `.html` would not be linted)?

Author: Oh, I didn't consider such a case.

I think that ESLint uses only `--ext` option if it was given. (`.html` would not be linted)

<table><td>
💡 <b>Example</b>:
<pre lang="yml">
overrides:
  - files: "*.ts"
    parser: "plugin:@typescript-eslint/parser"
  - files: "tests/**/*"
    env: { mocha: true }
</pre>

With the above config, `eslint .` command will check `*.ts` files additionally. But the command doesn't check all files inside `tests` directory.
</td></table>

### Implementation

We can add the check to [lib/cli-engine/file-enumerator.js#L410](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/blob/553795712892c8350b1780e947f65d3c019293a7/lib/cli-engine/file-enumerator.js#L410). It's very easy.

### With file extension processors

> If a plugin has file extension processors, [the config array factory yields elements which have `files` property](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/blob/553795712892c8350b1780e947f65d3c019293a7/lib/cli-engine/config-array-factory.js#L870-L902). Therefore this enhancement affects file extension processors.

Reviewer 3: It might be a good idea to clarify that this does not affect named processors. (I was initially confused because I thought we were adding implicit behavior when plugins load, but if I'm understanding correctly it only affects the legacy file extension processors, which are already implicit.)

Alternatively, if we want to discourage people from using legacy processors in favor of named processors, maybe we shouldn't implement this for legacy processors. (I'm not sure if legacy processors are deprecated.)

Author: Yes, it only affects the legacy file extension processors.

Indeed, #3 says "encourage plugin owners to update their processors to be named instead of extension-named."

Hmm. OK. It's better if implicit behavior is less. I will change this section.
